Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**LIST OF TRANSNET NATIONAL PORTS AUTHORITY FEES AT THE**

**SOUTH AFRICAN PORTS OF TRANSNET SOC (Ltd)**

**Definitions**

**“Act”** means the National Ports Act No. 12 of 2005.

**“Agent”** refers to all representatives having commercial dealings with a vessel or its cargo,
unless the context indicates that it refers to a particular kind of agent, and includes a vessel’s agent and a cargo agent.

**“Authority”** means Transnet National Ports Authority, a division of Transnet SOC Ltd.

**“Cargo”** means any cargo, goods, wares, merchandise, and articles of every kind whatsoever, including animals, birds, fish, plants and containers, carried, or intended to be carried, over the port infrastructure by sea.

**Claims for adjustment or refund of port fees**
All claims related to fees raised by the Authority in terms of the Authority’s Tariff Book
will, for prescription purposes, be dealt with strictly in terms of the Prescription Act, Act
No. 68 of 1969

**“Coaster”** refers to vessels carrying cargo exclusively between SA ports, on a regular
schedule. To qualify as a bonafide coaster, an application must be lodged and approved
by the Authority.

**“Coastwise cargo”** means cargo moving by sea between SA ports.

**“Container operator”** means any person providing international transportation of containerised goods, and approved by the Commissioner for the South African Revenue Service under section 96A of the Customs and Excise Act 91 of 1964, as amended, for operating containers in the Republic.

**“Entering port”** means a vessel entering the port’s limits.

**“passenger vessel”** means a vessel that carries more than 12 passengers.

**“pleasure vessel”** means a vessel, however propelled, that is used, or intended to be
used, solely for sports and recreation and that does not carry more than 12 passengers.

**Tariff Book April 2024—March 2025** **05**