Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**SECTION 7**

**CARGO DUES ON IMPORTS, EXPORTS, TRANSHIPMENTS AND COASTWISE**

Cargo dues on all commodities, articles, things or containers (full or empty) is levied at all
ports. Cargo dues are charged to recover the cargo contribution towards port infrastruc
ture.

**UNIT OF TONNAGE**

1 metric ton (1 000 kg), subject to a minimum of 1 ton, except for the following:

A vehicle is a purposely built mobile machine on wheels/tracks that is capable of being
steered/driven/towed (Including wagons, bicycles, motor vehicles, motorcycles, cars,
trucks, buses, railed vehicles, locomotives, tamping machines), Watercraft (ships, boats),
Aircraft (helicopters and spacecraft)

Bulk liquids: 1 kilolitre

The metric tonnage for tariffing purposes of cargo dues shall include all packaging i.e. mass
of cages, cases, pallets, bags, etc.

- Cargo dues on all commodities, articles, things or containers (full or empty) is levied at

all ports.

- The tonnage must be substantiated by presentation of a bill of lading, manifest, pack
ing declaration or supplier's invoices, as the case may be.

- In instances where the tonnage for cargo dues purposes has been incorrectly declared,

whether wilful or not, a late order fee will be charged.

- The minimum fee for cargo dues on breakbulk cargo will be based on 1 ton.

- The minimum fee for cargo dues on containers will be based on 1 TEU.

- The following base rates are applicable for commodities not listed in the Tariff Book.

The commodity rate remains applicable for products linked to a commodity (e.g., ferro
alloys). The fees are applicable as follows:

**Imports** **Exports**


Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**7.1 BREAKBULK**

**Commodity** **Imports** **Exports**