**Tariff Book April 2024—March 2025** **05**


Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**“fees”** means all fees, charges and dues contemplated in Section 73 of the Act. (The fees
in the Tariff Book are for the basic services only and other fees may be levied in the event
of a departure from or addition to basic services.) Fees will be raised at the time the service is performed excluding, where tariffs are adjusted annually where the actual time of
vessel arrival will be used for cargo dues purposes.

**“fishing vessel”** means a vessel that is used for the purpose of catching fish or other living
resources of the sea for financial gain or reward.

**“Harbour Master”** means the employee of the Authority appointed for each port as contemplated in section 74(3) of the Act.

**“length”** refers to the length overall (LOA) and means —
i) in the case of a registered vessel, the length shown in the certificate of registry;
and
ii) in the case of a vessel licensed in terms of section 68 of the Merchant Shipping
Act, 1951 (Act No. 57 of 1951), the length shown in the licence.

**“master”** means any person, other than a pilot, having charge or command of a vessel or
pleasure vessel.

**“ISO container”** means a freight container with the specifications prescribed by the International Organization for Standardisation.

**“owner”** means any person to whom a vessel or pleasure vessel or a share in a vessel or
pleasure vessel belongs or any other organisation or person, such as the manager or charterer, who has assumed the responsibility for the operation of the vessel or pleasure vessel from the owner of the vessel or pleasure vessel.