Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**7.6 EXEMPTIONS**

- Bunkers and/or water for the vessel’s own consumption at a commercial berth, jetty or

mooring;

- Cargo landed in error and reshipped onto the same vessel;

- Fish landed for local consumption at a leased berth from locally registered fishing vessels

licensed by the Department of Environmental Affairs & Tourism;

- Clip-on units for ISO reefer containers and the cribs in which they are conveyed when

returned to the original port of shipment;

- Cargo restowed by utilizing the wharf.

**Vessel’s spares / stores for own consumption**

- Vessel’s stores including bait and packaging materials, vessel’s spares all for the vessel’s

own consumption at any commercial berth, jetty or mooring;

- Bona fide transhipments will qualify for the above exemption only if the import and ex
port documents have been suitably endorsed.

**Notes:**

i. Vessel's spares/stores imported and moved to a bonded warehouse pending placing on
board another vessel are liable for cargo dues on the incoming leg. After placing on board as
vessel for own use, import cargo dues will be refunded whilst the outgoing transaction is
exonerated from payment of cargo dues provided that both transactions are done within 30
day period. Failing which normal import / export cargo dues will be maintained. (Both import
and export cargo dues documentation) must be suitably endorsed, certified and crossreferenced)

ii. Vessel's spares/stores transshipped from one vessel to another are exempted from cargo
dues. Documents must be certified to the effect that the cargo is vessel spares/stores for the
receiving vessel's own use and consumption

iii. Vessel's spares/stores emanating from local suppliers or being airfreighted are exempted
from cargo dues. In these instances, documents must also be certified