Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**7.8 LATE ORDER AND RELATED FEES**

Late order fee is applicable for cancellations and late submission of cargo documentation
are as follows:

Cargo dues order amendment fee per order……………………………………………………………...336.53
Late, incomplete and non-submission of manifests and outturn reports per manifest/
outturn report.
per manifest and outturn report………………………………………………………………………..…….1 682.72
Cargo dues order framing fee per order…………………………………………………………..………...336.53

All amended orders to be accompanied by the original order (upon request from the Authority).

**7.9.CARGO CONVEYED BY VESSEL PERMITTED TO SERVICE VES-**

**SELS WITHIN AND OUTSIDE THE PORT**

Per trip…………………………………………………….………………………………………………………..……..398.96

**Administrative fees**
for photocopies per page………………………….……………………………………….………...…………….10.54

**Tariff Book April 2024—March 2025** **47**


Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**SECTION 8**

**BUSINESS PROCESSES AND DOCUMENTATION**

**8.1 CARGO DUES ORDER**

Cargo Dues Orders must be presented at the port where the consignment will be landed/
shipped/transhipped.

A cargo dues order is valid upon invoicing. Therefore, cargo dues orders submitted online
but is in a pending status for reasons of "Credit not Available" or "Awaiting Payment" will
not be considered valid. Upon invoicing, late cargo dues order fees will be charged, applicable from the invoicing date. The original order will be cancelled and replaced with a
new cargo dues order with the applicable late cargo dues order fees.

Cargo dues is payable by the importer/exporter of cargo who may appoint a clearing and
forwarding agent to undertake transactions on their behalf. The account number appearing on the cargo dues order will be debited accordingly.