**Container Import and Exports:**

 - Cargo Dues Order

 - Vessel Manifest

 - Empty Container List

**Bulk and Breakbulk Imports:**

 - Cargo Dues Order i

 - Bill of Lading / Delivery Order

 - Vessel Manifest

 - Landing Order


**Bulk and Breakbulk Exports:**

- Cargo Dues Order

- Mates Receipt

- Vessel Manifest

- Draft survey for bulk exports

**Coastal Cargo:**

- Cargo Dues Order per inward and out- i

wards movement, supported by an
inwards or outwards list, differentiated
between full, empty, 6m (20’), 12m
(40’) or 13,75m (45’).


i


i

**Transshipment Cargo:**

 - Cargo Dues Order per inward and outwards movement, supported by an inwards or

outwards list, differentiated between full, empty, 6m (20’), 12m (40’) or 13,75m (45’).

At the request of the Authority, including relevant Customs documentation must be provided to substantiate cargo declarations.

**Supporting documentation: Vehicles**

In addition to the types of documentation listed in Section 8, Clause 1.1 above please include any of the following documentation below specifying the length/s of the vehicle/s
when passing Cargo Dues Orders for vehicles:

**Tariff Book April 2024—March 2025** **49**


i

1. Cargo Dues Orders must be submitted within five (5) days after vessel departure for bulk
(dry and liquid) cargo and within three (3) days after vessel departure for all other cargo
types. The only exception to this rule being fresh fish imports where cargo dues orders
must be submitted within seven (7) days after vessel arrival.

2. Manifests must be submitted within one (1) day before vessel arrival.
2.1 Manifest in respect of empties must be submitted within three (3) days after vessel
departure.

3. Breakbulk and Bulk Cargo Dues Orders must be supported by the Bill of Lading or Delivery Order or survey reports for bulk vessels.