**8.2 RESPONSIBLE PARTY**

Cargo dues is payable by the importer/exporter of cargo who may appoint a clearing and
forwarding agent to undertake transactions on their behalf. The account number appearing
on the cargo dues order will be debited accordingly.

In instances where cargo dues orders have not been received, such charges will be billed to
the container operator per TEU for container traffic and the vessel agent for bulk and breakbulk traffic.

Cargo Dues and all related charges for uncleared containers will be billed to the container
operator per TEU for containerised cargo.

Cargo Dues Orders submitted for individual LCL consignments will be invoiced at the full
cargo dues tariff per TEU as published in the Tariff Book. In all cases, a Cargo Dues Order
must be presented, indicating all the container numbers on the order, or alternatively the
Cargo Dues Order can be presented, with an attached list containing the relevant container
numbers.

**8.3 LATE ORDER FEES**

**8.3.1 Late order fees for late submission of Cargo Dues Orders**

Cargo Dues Orders will be considered late when submitted to the Authority after the stipulated timeframes. The Authority will charge interest on the normal cargo dues payable,
calculated at the prevailing prime rate plus one percent of the value of the Cargo Dues
Order. The following **example** illustrates this calculation:

Prime Rate: 9.0%

Prime Rate plus 1% = 10.0%

Value of Order R10 000

Number of days late: 14
Interest Calculation (10.0% x (14/365)) = R38.37
Total Cargo Dues Payable R10 038.37

The first public holiday and first weekend will be excluded if it falls within the number of
days that the Order has been submitted late for purposes of interest calculation.

**8.3.2 Non-submission of Cargo Dues Orders**

The Authority will apply an incremental late order fee based on the cargo dues payable
and dependent on how late documentation is submitted or when a non-submission is discovered by the Authority’s internal verification process. Refer below for late order application: