Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**“Port Rules”** are the rules that the Authority may, with the approval of the Minister of
Transport, adopt in terms of Section 80(2) of the Act.

**“Republic”** means the Republic of South Africa.

**“Revenue Office”** means the Authority’s Revenue Office.

**“SAMSA”** means the South African Maritime Safety Authority, established as a juristic
person by virtue of section 2(1) of the South African Maritime Safety Authority Act No. 5
of 1998.

**“shift”** means the movement of a vessel from one place in the port to another, and
“shifting” bears a corresponding meaning.

**“small vessel”** means a commercial small vessel that:

i) is registered in the Republic;
ii) lies in, is used in or operates from a port; and
iii) includes a tug, fishing vessel, launch, barge, lighter, rowing boat, ski boat, sailing
boat, yacht or similar vessel, or a hulk of any of the vessels enumerated, but excludes a pleasure vessel.

**“tanker”** means a vessel designed to carry liquid cargo in bulk, including a combination
carrier being used for this purpose.

**“Tariff Book”** means the Tariff Book contemplated in section 72 of the Act.

**“Transhipment”** means an act of off-loading cargo from one ship (generally at the hub
port) and loading it onto another ship to be further carried to the final port of discharge
outside SA ports.

**“Transnet”** means Transnet SOC(Ltd) registration No. 1990/00900/30.

**“Unit of tonnage”** means
1 metric ton (1 000 kg), subject to a minimum of 1 ton, except for the following: