- A vehicle is a purposely built mobile machine on wheels/tracks that is capable of be
ing steered/driven/towed (Including wagons, bicycles, motor vehicles, motorcycles,
cars, trucks, buses, railed vehicles, locomotives, tamping machines), Watercraft (ships,
boats), Aircraft (helicopters and spacecraft).

 - Bulk liquids = 1 kilolitre

 - The metric tonnage for tariffing purposes of cargo dues shall include all packaging i.e.

mass of cargo, cases, pallets, bags etc.

**Tariff Book April 2024—March 2025** **07**


Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**“vessel”** means any water-navigable vessel or structure and includes a passenger vessel,
ship, seaplane, small vessel and a non-displacement vessel, but excludes a pleasure vessel, to which Part B of Chapter 2 applies.

**“vessel agent”** means the agent or owner of the vessel.

**“vessel in need of assistance”** means a vessel in a situation, apart from one requiring
rescue of persons on board, that could give rise to the loss of the vessel or an environmental or navigational hazard.

**“vessel’s tonnage”** (excluding Section 6) means the tonnage for port tariff purposes is the
gross tonnage of a vessel as per the tonnage certificate issued in terms of the Tonnage
Convention 1969. (NOT converted to cubic metres.)

Where the vessel's tonnage is not available, the highest tonnage reflected in Lloyds Register of Shipping, is acceptable.

**“VTS”** means the vessel traffic service of a port administered by the Authority in respect
of a VTS zone.

**Importer/Exporter** – the responsible party at the time of ship to shore / shore to ship
transfer of cargo.

- Importer = the buyer or nominated representative

- Exporter = the seller or nominated representative

**Tariff Book April 2024 - March 2025** **08**