Tariffs subject to VAT at 15%: Tariffs in South African Rand

**SECTION 1**

**1.1 LIGHT DUES ON VESSELS**

Light dues in accordance with the vessels tonnage definition as follows:

The tonnage of a vessel for port tariff purposes is the gross tonnage of a vessel as per the
tonnage certificate issued in terms of the Tonnage Convention 1969. (NOT converted to
cubic metres).

Where the vessel’s tonnage certificate is not available, the highest tonnage reflected in
Lloyds Register of Shipping, is acceptable.

The sea within a distance of twelve (12) nautical miles from the baselines shall be the
territorial waters of the Republic. When vessels go beyond twelve (12) nautical miles it
would be deemed as being outside the ports territorial waters.

**1.1.1 LIGHT DUES**

Payable by:
Self-propelled vessels, vessels licensed by the Department of Environmental Affairs and
Tourism, at their registered port:

Per metre or part thereof of the length overall per financial year or part thereof…………24.64
**All other vessels**

Light dues raised at the first South African port of call and remains valid until the vessel departs from the last South African port of call, subject to the following conditions:
1. Vessel does not proceed beyond the borders of the South African coastline as defined.
2. Time spent in South African waters does not exceed 60 days.

     - After 60 days the vessel will be deemed coastal for Light Dues purposes only
and will be liable for Light Dues raised on a per calendar month basis.

     - It would still be the vessel's prerogative to request for coastal status within
the 60 day window.
3. Vessels remaining within a specific port for extended periods will only be charged once
and would not be affected by the length of stay:

Per 100 tons or part thereof………………………………………………………………………………………..117.08